.TH LDAP_MODRDN 3 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_modrdn, ldap_modrdn_s, ldap_modrdn2, ldap_modrdn2_s \- Perform an LDAP modify RDN operation
.SH LIBRARY
ReOpenLDAP LDAP (libreldap, \-lreldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_modrdn(ld, dn, newrdn)
.ft
LDAP \(**ld;
char \(**dn, \(**newrdn;
.LP
.ft B
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_modrdn_s(ld, dn, newrdn)
.ft
LDAP \(**ld;
char \(**dn, \(**newrdn;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_modrdn2(ld, dn, newrdn, deleteoldrdn)
.ft
LDAP \(**ld;
char \(**dn, \(**newrdn;
int deleteoldrdn;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_modrdn2_s(ld, dn, newrdn, deleteoldrdn)
.ft
LDAP \(**ld;
char \(**dn, \(**newrdn;
int deleteoldrdn;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_modrdn()
and
.B ldap_modrdn_s()
routines perform an LDAP modify
RDN operation.  They both take \fIdn\fP, the DN of the entry whose
RDN is to be changed, and \fInewrdn\fP, the new RDN to give the entry.
The old RDN of the entry is never kept as an attribute of the entry.
.B ldap_modrdn()
is asynchronous, returning the message id of the operation
it initiates.
.B ldap_modrdn_s()
is synchronous, returning the LDAP error
code indicating the success or failure of the operation.  Use of
these routines is deprecated.  Use the versions described below
instead.
.LP
The
.B ldap_modrdn2()
and
.B ldap_modrdn2_s()
routines also perform an LDAP
modify RDN operation, taking the same parameters as above.  In addition,
they both take the \fIdeleteoldrdn\fP parameter which is used as a boolean
value to indicate whether the old RDN values should be deleted from
the entry or not.
.SH ERRORS
The synchronous (_s) versions of these routines return an LDAP error
code, either LDAP_SUCCESS or an error if there was trouble.
The asynchronous versions return \-1 in case
of trouble, setting the
.B ld_errno
field of \fIld\fP.  See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for more details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
