.TH LDAP_MEMORY 3 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_memfree, ldap_memvfree, ldap_memalloc, ldap_memcalloc, ldap_memrealloc, ldap_strdup \- LDAP memory allocation routines
.SH LIBRARY
ReOpenLDAP LDAP (libreldap, \-lreldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ldap.h>
.LP
.BI "void ldap_memfree(void *" p ");"
.LP
.BI "void ldap_memvfree(void **" v ");"
.LP
.BI "void *ldap_memalloc(ber_len_t " s ");"
.LP
.BI "void *ldap_memcalloc(ber_len_t " n ", ber_len_t " s ");"
.LP
.BI "void *ldap_memrealloc(void *" p ", ber_len_t " s ");"
.LP
.BI "char *ldap_strdup(LDAP_CONST char *" p ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are used to allocate/deallocate memory used/returned
by the LDAP library.
.BR ldap_memalloc (),
.BR ldap_memcalloc (),
.BR ldap_memrealloc (),
and
.BR ldap_memfree ()
are used exactly like the standard
.BR malloc (3),
.BR calloc (3),
.BR realloc (3),
and
.BR free (3)
routines, respectively.
The
.BR ldap_memvfree ()
routine is used to free a dynamically allocated array of pointers to
arbitrary dynamically allocated objects.
The
.BR ldap_strdup ()
routine is used exactly like the standard
.BR strdup (3)
routine.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
