.TH LDAP_FIRST_REFERENCE 3 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_first_reference, ldap_next_reference, ldap_count_references \- Stepping through continuation references in a result chain
.SH LIBRARY
ReOpenLDAP LDAP (libreldap, \-lreldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_count_references( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *result )
.LP
.ft B
LDAPMessage *ldap_first_reference( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *result )
.LP
.ft B
LDAPMessage *ldap_next_reference( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *reference )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are used to step through the continuation references in a
result chain received from
.BR ldap_result (3)
or the synchronous LDAP search operation routines.
.LP
The
.B ldap_first_reference()
routine is used to retrieve the first reference message in a
result chain.  It takes the \fIresult\fP as returned by a call to
.BR ldap_result (3) ,
.BR ldap_search_s (3)
or
.BR ldap_search_st (3)
and returns a pointer to the first reference message in the
result chain.
.LP
This pointer should be supplied on a subsequent call to
.B ldap_next_reference()
to get the next reference message, the result of which should be
supplied to the next call to
.BR ldap_next_reference() ,
etc.
.B ldap_next_reference()
will return NULL when there are no more reference messages.
The reference messages returned from these calls are used by
.BR ldap_parse_reference (3)
to extract referrals and controls.
.LP
A count of the number of reference messages in the search result can be
obtained by calling
.BR ldap_count_references() .
It can also be used to count the number of reference messages remaining
in a result chain.
.SH ERRORS
If an error occurs in
.B ldap_first_reference()
or
.BR ldap_next_reference() ,
NULL is returned.  If an error occurs in
.BR ldap_count_references() ,
-1 is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_search (3),
.BR ldap_parse_reference (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
