.TH LDAP_FIRST_ATTRIBUTE 3 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_first_attribute, ldap_next_attribute \- step through LDAP entry attributes
.SH LIBRARY
ReOpenLDAP LDAP (libreldap, \-lreldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
char *ldap_first_attribute(
	LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *entry, BerElement **berptr )
.LP
.ft B
char *ldap_next_attribute(
	LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *entry, BerElement *ber )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_first_attribute()
and
.B ldap_next_attribute()
routines are used
to step through the attributes in an LDAP entry.
.B ldap_first_attribute()
takes an \fIentry\fP as returned by
.BR ldap_first_entry (3)
or
.BR ldap_next_entry (3)
and returns a pointer to character string
containing the first attribute description in the entry.
.B ldap_next_attribute()
returns the next attribute description in the entry.
.LP
It also returns, in \fIberptr\fP, a pointer to a BerElement it has
allocated to keep track of its current position.  This pointer should
be passed to subsequent calls to
.B ldap_next_attribute()
and is used
to effectively step through the entry's attributes.  The caller is
solely responsible for freeing the BerElement pointed to by \fIberptr\fP
when it is no longer needed by calling
.BR ber_free (3).
When calling
.BR ber_free (3)
in this instance, be sure the second argument is 0.
.LP
The attribute names returned are suitable for inclusion in a call
to
.BR ldap_get_values (3)
to retrieve the attribute's values.
.SH ERRORS
If an error occurs, NULL is returned and the ld_errno field in the
\fIld\fP parameter is set to indicate the error.  See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for a description of possible error codes.
.SH NOTES
The
.B ldap_first_attribute()
and
.B ldap_next_attribute()
return dynamically allocated memory that must be freed by the caller via
.BR ldap_memfree (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_first_entry (3),
.BR ldap_get_values (3),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
