.TH LDAP_DELETE 3 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_delete, ldap_delete_s, ldap_delete_ext, ldap_delete_ext_s \- Perform an LDAP delete operation.
.SH LIBRARY
ReOpenLDAP LDAP (libreldap, \-lreldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_delete_s(ld, dn)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *dn;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_delete(ld, dn)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *dn;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_delete_ext(ld, dn, serverctrls, clientctrls, msgidp)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *dn;
LDAPControl **serverctrls, **clientctrls;
int *msgidp;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_delete_ext_s(ld, dn, serverctrls, clientctrls)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *dn;
LDAPControl **serverctrls, **clientctrls;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_delete_s()
routine is used to perform an LDAP delete operation
synchronously. It takes \fIdn\fP, the DN of the entry to be deleted.
It returns an LDAP error code, indicating the success or failure of the
operation.
.LP
The
.B ldap_delete()
routine is used to perform an LDAP delete operation
asynchronously. It takes the same parameters as
.BR ldap_delete_s(),
but returns the message id of the request it initiated. The result of
the delete can be obtained by a subsequent call to
.BR ldap_result (3).
.LP
The
.B ldap_delete_ext()
routine  allows  server  and client controls to be
specified to extend the delete request. This routine is asynchronous like
ldap_delete(), but its return value is an LDAP error code. It stores the
message id of the request in the integer pointed to by msgidp.
.LP
The
.B ldap_delete_ext_s()
routine is the synchronous version of
.BR ldap_delete_ext().
It also returns an LDAP error code indicating success
or failure of the operation.
.SH ERRORS
.B ldap_delete_s()
returns an LDAP error code which can be interpreted
by calling one of
.BR ldap_perror (3)
and friends.
.B ldap_delete()
returns \-1 if something went wrong initiating the request. It returns the
non-negative message id of the request if things went ok.
.LP
.B ldap_delete_ext()
and
.B ldap_delete_ext_s()
return some Non-zero value if
something  went wrong initiating the request, else return 0.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
