.TH LDAP_PARSE_SORT-CONTROL 3 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_parse_sort_control \- Decode the information returned from a search operation that used a server-side sort control
.SH LIBRARY
ReOpenLDAP LDAP (libreldap, \-lreldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_parse_sort_control(ld, ctrls, returnCode, attribute)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
LDAPControl **ctrls;
unsigned long *returnCode;
char **attribute;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to parse the results returned in a search operation
that uses a server-side sort control.
.LP
It takes a null terminated array of LDAPControl structures usually obtained
by a call to the
.BR ldap_parse_result
function. A returncode which points to the sort control result code,and an array
of LDAPControl structures that list the client controls to use with the search.
The function also takes an out parameter \fIattribute\fP and if the sort operation
fails, the server may return a string that indicates the first attribute in the
sortKey list that caused the failure. If this parameter is NULL, no string is
returned. If a string is returned, the memory should be freed by calling the
ldap_memfree function.
.SH NOTES
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_controls_free (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
