.TH SLAPDN 8C "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 2004-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapdn \- Check a list of string-represented LDAP DNs based on schema syntax
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapdn
[\c
.BI \-d \ debug-level\fR]
[\c
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf\fR]
[\c
.BI \-F \ confdir\fR]
[\c
.BR \-N | \-P ]
[\c
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
.IR DN \ [...]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapdn
is used to check the conformance of a DN based on the schema
defined in
.BR slapd (8)
and that loaded via
.BR slapd.conf (5).
It opens the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
configuration file or the slapd\-config (5) backend, reads in the schema definitions, and then
parses the
.I DN
list given on the command-line.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug-level
enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR debug-level ;
see
.BR slapd (8)
for details.
.TP
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf
specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F \ confdir
specify a config directory.
If both
.B \-f
and
.B \-F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, an attempt to read the
default config directory will be made before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored.
.TP
.BI \-N
only output a normalized form of the \fIDN\fP, suitable to be used
in a normalization tool; incompatible with
.BR \-P .
.TP
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]
Specify an
.I option
with a(n optional)
.IR value .
Possible generic options/values are:
.LP
.nf
              syslog=<subsystems>  (see `\-s' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-level=<level> (see `\-S' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-user=<user>   (see `\-l' in slapd(8))

.fi
.TP
.BI \-P
only output a prettified form of the \fIDN\fP, suitable to be used
in a check and beautification tool; incompatible with
.BR \-N .
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
To check a
.B DN
give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapdn \-f /ETCDIR/slapd.conf \-v DN
.ft
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR slaptest (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
