.TH SLAPD-NULL 5 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 2002-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapd\-null \- Null backend to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Null backend to
.BR slapd (8)
is surely the most useful part of
.BR slapd :
.br
- Searches return success but no entries.
.br
- Compares return compareFalse.
.br
- Updates return success (unless readonly is on) but do nothing.
.br
- Binds other than as the rootdn fail unless the database option "bind
on" is given.
.br
- The
.BR slapadd (8)
and
.BR slapcat (8)
tools are equally exciting.
.br
Inspired by the /dev/null device.
.SH CONFIGURATION
This
.B slapd.conf
option applies to the NULL backend database.
That is, it must follow a "database null" line and come before
any subsequent "database" lines.
Other database options are described in the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
manual page.
.TP
.B bind <on/off>
Allow binds as any DN in this backend's suffix, with any password.
The default is "off".
.TP
.B dosearch <on/off>
If enabled, a single entry will be returned on all search requests.
The entry's DN will be the same as the database suffix.
The default is "off".
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a possible slapd.conf extract using the Null backend:
.LP
.RS
.nf
database null
suffix   "cn=Nothing"
bind     on
.fi
.RE
.SH ACCESS CONTROL
The
.B null
backend does not honor any of the access control semantics described in
.BR slapd.access (5).
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR slapcat (8).
