.TH SLAPO-DYNGROUP 5 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 2005-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapo\-dyngroup \- Dynamic Group overlay to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Dynamic Group overlay allows clients to use LDAP Compare operations
to test the membership of a dynamic group the same way they would check
against a static group. Compare operations targeting a group's static
member attribute will be intercepted and tested against the configured
dynamic group's URL attribute.
.LP
Note that this intercept only happens if the actual
Compare operation does not return a LDAP_COMPARE_TRUE result. So if a
group has both static and dynamic members, the static member list will
be checked first.
.SH CONFIGURATION
This
.B slapd.conf
option applies to the Dynamic Group overlay.
It should appear after the
.B overlay
directive.
.TP
.B attrpair <memberAttr> <URLattr>
Specify the attributes to be compared. A compare operation on the
.I memberAttr
will cause the
.I URLattr
to be evaluated for the result.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
  database mdb
  ...
  overlay dyngroup
  attrpair member memberURL
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd\-config (5).
.SH AUTHOR
Howard Chu
