.TH SLAPO-REFINT 5 "RELEASEDATE" "ReOpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $ReOpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\"
.\" This file is part of ReOpenLDAP.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" ReOpenLDAP is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ---
.\"
.\" Copyright 2004-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapo\-refint \- Referential Integrity overlay to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Referential Integrity overlay can be used with a backend database such as
.BR slapd\-mdb (5)
to maintain the cohesiveness of a schema which utilizes reference attributes.
.LP
Integrity is maintained by updating database records which contain the named
attributes to match the results of a
.B modrdn
or
.B delete
operation. For example, if the integrity attribute were configured as
.BR manager ,
deletion of the record "uid=robert,ou=people,dc=example,dc=com" would trigger a
search for all other records which have a
.B manager
attribute containing that DN. Entries matching that search would have their
.B manager
attribute removed.
Or, renaming the same record into "uid=george,ou=people,dc=example,dc=com"
would trigger a search for all other records which have a
.B manager
attribute containing that DN.
Entries matching that search would have their
.B manager
attribute deleted and replaced by the new DN.
.LP
.B rootdn
must be set for the database.  refint runs as the rootdn
to gain access to make its updates.
.B rootpw
is not needed.
.SH CONFIGURATION
These
.B slapd.conf
options apply to the Referential Integrity overlay.
They should appear after the
.B overlay
directive.
.TP
.B refint_attributes <attribute> [...]
Specify one or more attributes for which integrity will be maintained
as described above.
.TP
.B refint_nothing <string>
Specify an arbitrary value to be used as a placeholder when the last value
would otherwise be deleted from an attribute. This can be useful in cases
where the schema requires the existence of an attribute for which referential
integrity is enforced. The attempted deletion of a required attribute will
otherwise result in an Object Class Violation, causing the request to fail.
The string must be a valid DN.
.TP
.B refint_modifiersname <DN>
Specify the DN to be used as the modifiersName of the internal modifications
performed by the overlay.
It defaults to "\fIcn=Referential Integrity Overlay\fP".
.LP
Modifications performed by this overlay are not propagated during
replication. This overlay must be configured identically on
replication consumers in order to maintain full synchronization
with the provider.

.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd\-config (5).
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
